DRUG NAME: Liraglutide
SOURCE: MedlinePlus (NIH, public)

[USES]
Liraglutide is used along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar control
in adults and children 10 years of age and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
It is also used to reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events, such as heart
attack or stroke, in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have known heart
disease.

Some formulations of liraglutide are also approved for weight management in
certain adults.

[DOSAGES]
Liraglutide is supplied as a solution in a prefilled pen for subcutaneous
injection. It is injected once daily, at any time of day, with or without meals.

Injection sites include the abdominal area (stomach), thigh, or upper arm.
Liraglutide should not be injected into a vein or muscle. Patients should follow
their healthcare provider’s instructions carefully and should not change the
dose without medical advice.

[SIDE EFFECTS]
Liraglutide may cause serious side effects, including inflammation of the
pancreas (pancreatitis), low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) when used with insulin
or certain diabetes medications, kidney problems, gallbladder disease, and
serious allergic reactions.

Commonly reported side effects include nausea, vomiting, diarrhea,
constipation, abdominal pain, decreased appetite, headache, and dizziness.

[CONTRAINDICATIONS]
Liraglutide should not be used in patients with a personal or family history
of medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) or in patients with Multiple Endocrine
Neoplasia syndrome type 2 (MEN 2).

Do not use liraglutide if you are allergic to liraglutide or any of its
ingredients.

[DRUG PRESCRIPTION]
Liraglutide can interact with other medications. Dosage adjustments of other
diabetes medicines, including insulin or sulfonylureas, may be required to
reduce the risk of hypoglycemia.

Liraglutide may also affect the absorption of oral medications. Increased blood
glucose monitoring is recommended when liraglutide is used together with other
medications.

[POTENTIAL DRUG INTERACTIONS]
Liraglutide may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when used with insulin or
insulin secretagogues, such as sulfonylureas.

Because liraglutide slows gastric emptying, it may change how quickly oral
medications are absorbed. Blood glucose levels should be monitored closely
when liraglutide is used with other medications.
