DRUG NAME: Empagliflozin
SOURCE: MedlinePlus (NIH, public)

[USES]
Empagliflozin is used along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar
control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Empagliflozin is also used to reduce the risk of cardiovascular death in
adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have established cardiovascular
disease.

Empagliflozin is not used to treat type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis.

[DOSAGES]
Empagliflozin is supplied as a tablet taken by mouth. It is usually taken
once daily in the morning, with or without food.

The dose of empagliflozin may be adjusted based on the patient’s response
and kidney function. Empagliflozin should be taken exactly as directed
by a healthcare provider, and patients should not take more or less than
prescribed.

[SIDE EFFECTS]
Empagliflozin may cause serious side effects, including diabetic
ketoacidosis, dehydration, kidney problems, serious urinary tract
infections, genital yeast infections, and serious allergic reactions.

Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) may occur when empagliflozin is used
together with insulin or certain other diabetes medications.

Common side effects of empagliflozin include urinary tract infection,
increased urination, and upper respiratory tract infection.

[CONTRAINDICATIONS]
Empagliflozin should not be used in patients who are allergic to
empagliflozin or any of its ingredients.

Empagliflozin should not be used in people with type 1 diabetes or in
patients with severe kidney disease. Patients should inform their
healthcare provider if they have kidney problems, frequent urinary tract
infections, or a history of diabetic ketoacidosis.

[DRUG PRESCRIPTION]
Empagliflozin can interact with other medications. When empagliflozin is
used together with insulin or insulin secretagogues such as sulfonylureas,
the risk of low blood sugar may increase.

Certain medications that affect fluid balance or kidney function may
increase the risk of side effects. Dosage adjustments or closer monitoring
may be required.

[POTENTIAL DRUG INTERACTIONS]
Empagliflozin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when used together
with insulin or sulfonylureas.

Diuretics may increase the risk of dehydration and low blood pressure
when taken with empagliflozin. Blood glucose levels and kidney function
should be monitored closely when empagliflozin is used with other
medications.