DRUG NAME: Glyburide
SOURCE: MedlinePlus (NIH, public)

[USES]
Glyburide is used along with diet and exercise to lower blood sugar levels
in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Glyburide helps control blood sugar by stimulating the pancreas to release
insulin. Glyburide is not used to treat type 1 diabetes or diabetic
ketoacidosis.

[DOSAGES]
Glyburide is supplied as a tablet taken by mouth. It is usually taken once
daily with breakfast or the first main meal of the day. Some patients may
need to take glyburide more than once daily.

Glyburide should be taken exactly as directed by a healthcare provider.
Patients should not take more or less than prescribed.

[SIDE EFFECTS]
Glyburide may cause low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Symptoms of hypoglycemia
may include shakiness, sweating, dizziness, hunger, headache, confusion,
and blurred vision. Severe hypoglycemia may result in loss of consciousness
or seizures.

Other possible side effects include nausea, vomiting, heartburn, stomach
pain, diarrhea, constipation, headache, and weight gain.

Allergic reactions and liver problems may occur rarely.

[CONTRAINDICATIONS]
Glyburide should not be used in patients who are allergic to glyburide or
other sulfonylurea medications.

Glyburide should not be used in people with type 1 diabetes or diabetic
ketoacidosis.

Patients should inform their healthcare provider if they have kidney
disease, liver disease, or glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)
deficiency before starting glyburide.

[DRUG PRESCRIPTION]
Glyburide can interact with other medications. Some medicines may increase
the risk of low blood sugar, while others may reduce the effectiveness of
glyburide.

Dosage adjustments or closer blood glucose monitoring may be required when
glyburide is taken with other medications.

[POTENTIAL DRUG INTERACTIONS]
Glyburide may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when taken together with
insulin or other diabetes medications.

Certain medications such as beta-blockers, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs (NSAIDs), antifungal medications, antibiotics, and alcohol may also
increase the risk of low blood sugar when used with glyburide.

Some drugs may raise blood sugar levels and decrease the effect of
glyburide. Blood glucose monitoring is recommended when glyburide is used
with other medications.
