DRUG NAME: Sitagliptin
SOURCE: MedlinePlus (NIH, public)

[USES]
Sitagliptin is used along with diet and exercise to improve blood sugar control
in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Sitagliptin is not used to treat type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis.

[DOSAGES]
Sitagliptin is supplied as a tablet taken by mouth. It is usually taken once
daily, with or without food.

The dose of sitagliptin may need to be adjusted in patients with kidney
problems. Sitagliptin should be taken exactly as directed by a healthcare
provider, and patients should not take more or less than prescribed.

[SIDE EFFECTS]
Sitagliptin may cause serious side effects, including inflammation of the
pancreas (pancreatitis), heart failure, kidney problems, severe allergic
reactions, severe joint pain, and skin reactions such as bullous pemphigoid.

Low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) may occur when sitagliptin is used together
with insulin or certain other diabetes medications.

Common side effects reported with sitagliptin include upper respiratory tract
infection, stuffy or runny nose, sore throat, and headache.

[CONTRAINDICATIONS]
Sitagliptin should not be used in patients who are allergic to sitagliptin or
any of its ingredients.

Patients should inform their healthcare provider if they have a history of
pancreatitis, kidney disease, or heart failure before starting sitagliptin.

[DRUG PRESCRIPTION]
Sitagliptin can interact with other medications. When sitagliptin is used
together with insulin or insulin secretagogues such as sulfonylureas, the
risk of low blood sugar may increase.

Dosage adjustments of these medications may be required, and closer blood
glucose monitoring is recommended.

[POTENTIAL DRUG INTERACTIONS]
Sitagliptin may increase the risk of hypoglycemia when taken with insulin or
sulfonylureas.

Other medications may affect how sitagliptin works or increase the risk of
side effects. Blood glucose levels should be monitored closely when
sitagliptin is used together with other medications.
